# Merge String Alternately
### Date: 19-07-2024

## Intuition
The problem requires merging two given strings alternately, character by character. If one string is longer than the other, the remaining characters of the longer string should be appended to the end of the merged string. 

## Approach
1. **Calculate Lengths**:
    - Determine the lengths of `word1` and `word2` using `strlen`.

2. **Allocate Memory for Result**:
    - Calculate the total length needed for the result string, which is the sum of the lengths of `word1` and `word2`.
    - Allocate memory for the result string, including space for the null terminator.

3. **Merge Alternately**:
    - Use two indices to track the positions in `word1` and `word2`, and a third index for the position in the result string.
    - Iterate through both strings, alternately appending characters to the result string.
    - If one string is exhausted before the other, append the remaining characters of the longer string to the result.

4. **Null Terminate and Return**:
    - Add a null terminator at the end of the result string.
    - Return the result string.

## Complexity

### Time Complexity

**O(n + m)**

- Where `n` is the length of `word1` and `m` is the length of `word2`. This is because each character of both strings is visited once.

### Space Complexity

**O(n + m)**

- Where `n` is the length of `word1` and `m` is the length of `word2`. This is due to the space allocated for the result string, which needs to store all characters from both input strings.

## Code
```c
char * mergeAlternately(char * word1, char * word2) {
    int word1Len = strlen(word1);
    int word2Len = strlen(word2);
    int resultLength = word1Len + word2Len;

    char* result = (char*)malloc(sizeof(char) * (resultLength + 1));
    if (result == NULL) {
        return NULL;
    }

    int word1I = 0, word2I = 0, resultI = 0;

    while (word1I < word1Len && word2I < word2Len) {
        result[resultI++] = word1[word1I++];
        result[resultI++] = word2[word2I++];
    }

    while (word1I < word1Len) {
        result[resultI++] = word1[word1I++];
    }

    while (word2I < word2Len) {
        result[resultI++] = word2[word2I++];
    }
    
    result[resultI] = '\0';

    return result;
}
```

### References
- **[LeetCode Problem Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-strings-alternately/?envType=study-plan-v2&envId=leetcode-75)**
- **[Solution Code](./1768.c)**
